Data Card
==============================

The proposed collection of HR Surveys encompasses 79 questionnaires, where 14 were taken from the [Talentia Software HCM](https://www.talentia-software.com/en/hr-suite/talentia-hcm/) internal data, and the remaining 65 derive from an GPT-driven augmentation process.

Statistics on the dataset are shown below:
|                                     | Total | Talentia HCM | Augmented |
| :---                                | :---: |    :---:     |   :---:   |
| Questionnaires                      | 79    | 14           | 65        |
| Questions                           | 603   | 113          | 490       |
| Question types                      | 8     | 8            | 8         |
| Answers                             | 2170  | 424          | 1746      |
| Questionnaire subtopics             | 434   | 434          | 434       |
| Average questions per questionnaire | 8     | 8            | 8         |
| Average answers per question        | 5     | 5            | 5         |
| Average subtopics per main topic    | 11    | 11           | 11        |
| Average question length (words)     | 12    | 9            | 13        |
| Average Answer length (words)       | 1     | 1            | 1         |


## Dataset architecture
The dataset construction followed the Talentia HCM database architecture as guideline, therefore we modeled the following entities and properties:

- **TF_QST_QUESTIONNAIRES**: Defines the available questionnaires by specifying the following properties:
    - *ID*: Positive integer that uniquely identifies a questionnaire in the system.

    - *CODE*: String that uniquely identifies a questionnaire in the system.

    - *NAME*: String representing the title of the questionnaire.

    - *TOPIC*: String representing the topic of the questionnaire. This field has been added for this work and manually valued due to some ambiguities in the column NAME.

    - *DESCRIPTION*:  Text that is used to describe the intent of the questionnaire.

- **TF_QST_QUESTIONS**: Defines the available questions reporting the following properties:
    - *ID*: Positive integer that uniquely identifies a question in the system.

    - *TYPE_ID*: Positive integer indicating the type of the question.

    - *QUESTIONNAIRE_ID*: Positive integer representing the belonging questionnaire of the question.

    - *CODE*:  String that uniquely identifies the question in the system.

    - *NAME*:  String representing the question's text.

    - *DISPLAY_ORDER*:  Positive integer representing the question's position in the whole questionnaire.

- **TF_QST_QUESTION_TYPES**: Defines the possible types of questions with the following properties:
    - *ID*: Positive integer that uniquely identifies the question's type in the system.

    - *CODE*: String that uniquely identifies the question's type in the system.

    - *NAME*: String representing the title of the question's type.

    - *DESCRIPTION*:  Text used to describe when to use the question's type.

- **TF_QST_ANSWERS**:  Defines the available answers reporting the following properties:
    - *ID*: Positive integer that uniquely identifies the answer in the system.

    - *QUESTION_ID*: Positive integer representing the belonging question of the answer.

    - *ANSWER*: Text reporting the answer content.

- **SUBTOPICS**:  Given a questionnaire's main topic, this entity defines possible subtopics that may have been addressed by questions within it. This entity was added for this work and manually filled taking into account the final data collection. It comprehends the following properties:
    - *QST_TOPIC*: Uppercase string reporting the questionnaire topic.

    - *SUBTOPICS_COUNT*: Positive integer representing number of defined subtopics for the main one.

    - *SUBTOPICS_LIST*: List of string, each representing the possible subtopic of the questionnaire.


## Augmentation process
The pipeline followed to augment the HR Surveys collection encompassess the following steps:

1. **Topic identification**, where Talentia HCM R&D department defined a list of 40 topics that are pertinent to HR survey questionnaires. Such topics mainly refers to employees satisfaction of their work, experiences, and opportunities.

2. **Survey generation**, where for each identified topic one or more questionnaires were generated by [ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com/).

3. **Human correction and validation**. Considering the risk of hallucinations and the objective to deliver a high-quality data collection, Talentia HCM R&D team reviewed 65 of the generated questionnaires correcting, enhancing, and validating them. Note that even in this step the unstructured text format was kept.

4. **Conversion to JSON**. Given the need to speed up the whole process, an automatic data import mechanism available in Talentia HCM was employed. Particularly, this involved ingesting a JSON which is mapped into tables in HCM's database, and automatically persisted into it. The JSON structured was obvously specified in the used prompt.

5. **Human correction and validation**, meant to fix eventual hallucinations like missing answers although present or wrong JSON parameter's values.